PROJECT_DELIVERABLES.md, before:

# Project Deliverables

## Customer Support Ticket Auto-Triage System

This document outlines all project deliverables and their status.

---

## ✅ Deliverable 1: Trained ML Model

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
A fully trained and optimized classification model, ready for production deployment.

### Details

**Model Type:** Ensemble Voting Classifier
- Combines Random Forest, SVM, Naive Bayes, and Logistic Regression
- Soft voting for probability-based predictions

**Performance Metrics:**
- **Accuracy**: 100% on test set
- **Precision**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **Recall**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **F1-Score**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **Cross-Validation**: 1.0000 (±0.0000)

**Model Files:**
- `models/ticket_classifier.pkl` (512 KB)
- `models/text_vectorizer.pkl` (18 KB)

**Categories Supported:**
1. Bug Report
2. Feature Request
3. Technical Issue
4. Billing Inquiry
5. Account Management

**Usage:**
```python
from models import TicketClassifier
from predict import predict_ticket

# Load and use
classifier = TicketClassifier()
classifier.load()

# Predict
result = predict_ticket(
    subject="Application crashes",
    description="The app crashes when opening reports"
)
```

**Location:** `models/ticket_classifier.pkl`

---

## ✅ Deliverable 2: API Endpoint

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
A robust RESTful API for real-time ticket classification and integration.

### Features

- ✅ RESTful API design
- ✅ Single ticket prediction endpoint
- ✅ Batch prediction endpoint
- ✅ Health check endpoint
- ✅ CORS enabled for cross-origin requests
- ✅ Error handling and validation
- ✅ JSON request/response format

### Endpoints

1. **GET /api/health** - Health check and model status
2. **GET /api/categories** - Get available categories
3. **POST /api/predict** - Single ticket classification
4. **POST /api/predict/batch** - Batch ticket classification

### Performance

- **Response Time**: 50-100ms per prediction
- **Concurrent Requests**: Tested up to 100
- **Batch Processing**: Handles 1000+ tickets

### Usage

**Start API Server:**
```bash
python api.py
```

**Example Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/predict \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "subject": "Application crashes",
    "description": "The app crashes when opening reports"
  }'
```

**Example Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "prediction": {
    "predicted_category": "Bug Report",
    "confidence": 0.95,
    "probabilities": {
      "Bug Report": 0.95,
      "Feature Request": 0.02,
      "Technical Issue": 0.01,
      "Billing Inquiry": 0.01,
      "Account Management": 0.01
    }
  }
}
```

### Integration Examples

**Python:**
```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "http://localhost:5000/api/predict",
    json={"subject": "...", "description": "..."}
)
```

**JavaScript:**
```javascript
fetch('http://localhost:5000/api/predict', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
  body: JSON.stringify({subject: '...', description: '...'})
})
```

### Files

- **API Server**: `api.py`
- **API Documentation**: `API_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **Test Suite**: `test_api.py`

---

## ✅ Deliverable 3: Technical Documentation

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
Comprehensive report on methodology, results, and usage guidelines.

### Documentation Files

#### 1. **TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Executive Summary
   - Methodology and Approach
   - System Architecture
   - Model Development Process
   - Results and Performance Metrics
   - Usage Guidelines
   - Deployment Guide
   - Maintenance Procedures
   - Appendix with references

#### 2. **API_DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Complete API reference
   - Endpoint documentation
   - Request/response examples
   - Integration examples (Python, JavaScript, cURL)
   - Error handling
   - Performance metrics

#### 3. **README.md**
   - Project overview
   - Installation instructions
   - Quick start guide
   - Project structure
   - Usage examples

#### 4. **HOW_TO_RUN.md**
   - Step-by-step running instructions
   - Troubleshooting guide
   - Common use cases

#### 5. **DATASET_STRUCTURE.md**
   - Dataset format specification
   - Column definitions
   - Data type requirements
   - Example datasets

#### 6. **QUICKSTART.md**
   - Quick start guide
   - Essential commands
   - Model configuration

### Key Sections

**Methodology:**
- Problem statement and solution approach
- Data requirements and preprocessing pipeline
- Model selection and training process

**Results:**
- Performance metrics and benchmarks
- Accuracy, precision, recall, F1-scores
- Cross-validation results
- Inference performance

**Usage:**
- Installation and setup
- Training instructions
- Prediction examples
- API integration

**Deployment:**
- Production deployment options
- Docker configuration
- Cloud platform guides
- Security considerations

---

## 📦 Additional Deliverables

### Code Components

1. **Core Modules**
   - `preprocessing.py` - Text preprocessing pipeline
   - `models.py` - ML model definitions
   - `train.py` - Training script
   - `predict.py` - Prediction functions
   - `evaluation.py` - Evaluation metrics

2. **Utilities**
   - `generate_sample_data.py` - Sample dataset generator
   - `check_errors.py` - Error checking utility
   - `test_api.py` - API test suite
   - `setup.py` - Setup verification

3. **Configuration**
   - `config.py` - System configuration
   - `requirements.txt` - Dependencies

### Sample Data

- **Sample Dataset**: `data/sample_tickets.csv`
  - 500 tickets
  - Balanced across 5 categories
  - Ready for training

### Evaluation Reports

- **Confusion Matrix**: `results/confusion_matrix.png`
- **Category Distribution**: `results/category_distribution.png`
- **Evaluation Report**: `results/evaluation_report.txt`

---

## 🚀 Quick Access

### Start Using the System

1. **Train Model:**
   ```bash
   python train.py
   ```

2. **Start API:**
   ```bash
   python api.py
   ```

3. **Test API:**
   ```bash
   python test_api.py
   ```

4. **Make Prediction:**
   ```bash
   python predict.py
   ```

### Documentation Files

- **Technical Documentation**: `TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **API Reference**: `API_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **Usage Guide**: `HOW_TO_RUN.md`
- **Quick Start**: `QUICKSTART.md`

---

## ✅ Deliverables Checklist

- [x] Trained ML Model (100% accuracy)
- [x] Model files saved and ready
- [x] RESTful API endpoint
- [x] API documentation
- [x] API test suite
- [x] Technical documentation
- [x] Usage guidelines
- [x] Deployment guide
- [x] Integration examples
- [x] Sample dataset
- [x] Evaluation reports

---

## 📊 Project Status

**Overall Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE**

All deliverables have been completed and are production-ready.

### Next Steps

1. **Deploy API** to production environment
2. **Integrate** with existing ticket system
3. **Monitor** performance and accuracy
4. **Retrain** model as new data becomes available

---

**Project Version**: 1.0.0  
**Completion Date**: December 2024  
**Status**: Production Ready

Commit message:

Update project description: Emphasize advanced ML project for revolutionizing customer support through intelligent ticket classification and automated routing

PROJECT_DELIVERABLES.md, after:

# Project Deliverables

## Customer Support Ticket Auto-Triage System

**An advanced machine learning project focused on revolutionizing customer support through intelligent ticket classification and automated routing systems.**

This document outlines all project deliverables and their status.

---

## ✅ Deliverable 1: Trained ML Model

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
A fully trained and optimized classification model, ready for production deployment.

### Details

**Model Type:** Ensemble Voting Classifier
- Combines Random Forest, SVM, Naive Bayes, and Logistic Regression
- Soft voting for probability-based predictions

**Performance Metrics:**
- **Accuracy**: 100% on test set
- **Precision**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **Recall**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **F1-Score**: 1.0000 (weighted)
- **Cross-Validation**: 1.0000 (±0.0000)

**Model Files:**
- `models/ticket_classifier.pkl` (512 KB)
- `models/text_vectorizer.pkl` (18 KB)

**Categories Supported:**
1. Bug Report
2. Feature Request
3. Technical Issue
4. Billing Inquiry
5. Account Management

**Usage:**
```python
from models import TicketClassifier
from predict import predict_ticket

# Load and use
classifier = TicketClassifier()
classifier.load()

# Predict
result = predict_ticket(
    subject="Application crashes",
    description="The app crashes when opening reports"
)
```

**Location:** `models/ticket_classifier.pkl`

---

## ✅ Deliverable 2: API Endpoint

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
A robust RESTful API for real-time ticket classification and integration.

### Features

- ✅ RESTful API design
- ✅ Single ticket prediction endpoint
- ✅ Batch prediction endpoint
- ✅ Health check endpoint
- ✅ CORS enabled for cross-origin requests
- ✅ Error handling and validation
- ✅ JSON request/response format

### Endpoints

1. **GET /api/health** - Health check and model status
2. **GET /api/categories** - Get available categories
3. **POST /api/predict** - Single ticket classification
4. **POST /api/predict/batch** - Batch ticket classification

### Performance

- **Response Time**: 50-100ms per prediction
- **Concurrent Requests**: Tested up to 100
- **Batch Processing**: Handles 1000+ tickets

### Usage

**Start API Server:**
```bash
python api.py
```

**Example Request:**
```bash
curl -X POST http://localhost:5000/api/predict \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
  -d '{
    "subject": "Application crashes",
    "description": "The app crashes when opening reports"
  }'
```

**Example Response:**
```json
{
  "status": "success",
  "prediction": {
    "predicted_category": "Bug Report",
    "confidence": 0.95,
    "probabilities": {
      "Bug Report": 0.95,
      "Feature Request": 0.02,
      "Technical Issue": 0.01,
      "Billing Inquiry": 0.01,
      "Account Management": 0.01
    }
  }
}
```

### Integration Examples

**Python:**
```python
import requests

response = requests.post(
    "http://localhost:5000/api/predict",
    json={"subject": "...", "description": "..."}
)
```

**JavaScript:**
```javascript
fetch('http://localhost:5000/api/predict', {
  method: 'POST',
  headers: {'Content-Type': 'application/json'},
  body: JSON.stringify({subject: '...', description: '...'})
})
```

### Files

- **API Server**: `api.py`
- **API Documentation**: `API_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **Test Suite**: `test_api.py`

---

## ✅ Deliverable 3: Technical Documentation

### Status: **COMPLETE**

### Description
Comprehensive report on methodology, results, and usage guidelines.

### Documentation Files

#### 1. **TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Executive Summary
   - Methodology and Approach
   - System Architecture
   - Model Development Process
   - Results and Performance Metrics
   - Usage Guidelines
   - Deployment Guide
   - Maintenance Procedures
   - Appendix with references

#### 2. **API_DOCUMENTATION.md**
   - Complete API reference
   - Endpoint documentation
   - Request/response examples
   - Integration examples (Python, JavaScript, cURL)
   - Error handling
   - Performance metrics

#### 3. **README.md**
   - Project overview
   - Installation instructions
   - Quick start guide
   - Project structure
   - Usage examples

#### 4. **HOW_TO_RUN.md**
   - Step-by-step running instructions
   - Troubleshooting guide
   - Common use cases

#### 5. **DATASET_STRUCTURE.md**
   - Dataset format specification
   - Column definitions
   - Data type requirements
   - Example datasets

#### 6. **QUICKSTART.md**
   - Quick start guide
   - Essential commands
   - Model configuration

### Key Sections

**Methodology:**
- Problem statement and solution approach
- Data requirements and preprocessing pipeline
- Model selection and training process

**Results:**
- Performance metrics and benchmarks
- Accuracy, precision, recall, F1-scores
- Cross-validation results
- Inference performance

**Usage:**
- Installation and setup
- Training instructions
- Prediction examples
- API integration

**Deployment:**
- Production deployment options
- Docker configuration
- Cloud platform guides
- Security considerations

---

## 📦 Additional Deliverables

### Code Components

1. **Core Modules**
   - `preprocessing.py` - Text preprocessing pipeline
   - `models.py` - ML model definitions
   - `train.py` - Training script
   - `predict.py` - Prediction functions
   - `evaluation.py` - Evaluation metrics

2. **Utilities**
   - `generate_sample_data.py` - Sample dataset generator
   - `check_errors.py` - Error checking utility
   - `test_api.py` - API test suite
   - `setup.py` - Setup verification

3. **Configuration**
   - `config.py` - System configuration
   - `requirements.txt` - Dependencies

### Sample Data

- **Sample Dataset**: `data/sample_tickets.csv`
  - 500 tickets
  - Balanced across 5 categories
  - Ready for training

### Evaluation Reports

- **Confusion Matrix**: `results/confusion_matrix.png`
- **Category Distribution**: `results/category_distribution.png`
- **Evaluation Report**: `results/evaluation_report.txt`

---

## 🚀 Quick Access

### Start Using the System

1. **Train Model:**
   ```bash
   python train.py
   ```

2. **Start API:**
   ```bash
   python api.py
   ```

3. **Test API:**
   ```bash
   python test_api.py
   ```

4. **Make Prediction:**
   ```bash
   python predict.py
   ```

### Documentation Files

- **Technical Documentation**: `TECHNICAL_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **API Reference**: `API_DOCUMENTATION.md`
- **Usage Guide**: `HOW_TO_RUN.md`
- **Quick Start**: `QUICKSTART.md`

---

## ✅ Deliverables Checklist

- [x] Trained ML Model (100% accuracy)
- [x] Model files saved and ready
- [x] RESTful API endpoint
- [x] API documentation
- [x] API test suite
- [x] Technical documentation
- [x] Usage guidelines
- [x] Deployment guide
- [x] Integration examples
- [x] Sample dataset
- [x] Evaluation reports

---

## 📊 Project Status

**Overall Status**: ✅ **COMPLETE**

All deliverables have been completed and are production-ready.

### Next Steps

1. **Deploy API** to production environment
2. **Integrate** with existing ticket system
3. **Monitor** performance and accuracy
4. **Retrain** model as new data becomes available

---

**Project Version**: 1.0.0  
**Completion Date**: December 2024  
**Status**: Production Ready
